The amount is called the committee to order.
And you now might use a little speech about the deportment by the people in the coffee room.
There are ten rules for the effect that there ought to be no manifestations,
audibly, of approval or disapproval at any time, of any time, by any members of the audience.
The uniformed officers, as you see before you, and the plain clothesmen scattered
through the audience have standing instructions from the committee to remove from the committee room immediately, firmly but politely.
Any member of the audience who violates the terms under which you enter the committee room,
namely to refrain completely from audible manifestations of approval or disapproval.
Our audiences have been uniformly cooperative and courteous.
Our guards and plain clothesmen have been splendid.
We hope that arrangement will continue.
I'll pick conclusion of the today's hearing yesterday we had just dismissed Mrs. Mary Dyspel from the stand.
Mr. Cohn is back on the stand. He has been sworn.
We had started around the interrogatory wheel and the chairman and son of the McClellan had each had ten minutes in which to question Mr. Cohn
to the next ten minutes to chair believe to go to Sen. Dersen.
We will start with him. Sen. Dersen.
Chairman.
Mr. Chairman.
Apartment. Apartment for your first chairman.
Are you mistaken, Senator Sen. Dyspel?
What is the situation with respect of the monitor at all?
The council advises me that he has now received.
Is it from all senators or all senators at one?
All senators except one.
All senators except one have told him that they are ready to vote for their monocleid calls in the record.
That's not what I meant to say.
But I meant to say that we now have an opposition.
All of the monitor calls between the members of this committee and Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams.
I think physically the monitor calls of one senator are not in our position.
But as I understand it they are ready to vote for us.
Mr. Chairman. Senator Sen. Dersen.
I must say I don't see what the monitor calls of the senator have to do with the question of whether or not we put into the record.
The calls of the monitor calls of the principals in this case.
And they'll form a few of the received emotions.
I would move that the monitor calls of the principals in this case be made a matter of the public record.
Because I noticed that you felt on one press story that we were on the way towards home plate in these hearings.
And it's been some five weeks.
And that would be a motion if you would care to put it to the committee.
Mr. Chairman, may I make an inquiry?
Senator Dersen, he didn't.
That applies only to the monitor calls between the principals and the Army or anybody else.
Well, first I may say to my distinguished friend and colleague, the Union Senator, Penoly Neuoy, I have signed a statement saying that any monitor calls of mine can be put into the record if the council so believes that the opponents of this issue.
I don't think the members of this committee are here on trial or defend any situation.
And I'm certainly very glad to have my call put in.
If they would expedite putting all the calls of the principals into the public record.
I wonder if he's willing to amend your motion then to include all the monitor calls in the position of the council, which includes a number of monitor calls between members of this committee and the principals.
If the chairman fails that all the calls of all the members of this committee should be put in in order to obtain for the information of the people all calls and I'd be glad to amend my motion that way.
I think that would be more satisfactory and more equitable.
I would be glad to look at the records of the shine records after the hearing was over yesterday.
He was available, but he has not yet been shown the records.
He was available this morning and he was not shown the records.
Could I ask the chairman if there is any change in the agreement yesterday and if not why is there a delay in allowing the records to be shown to the minority council?
I certainly had no right on that. He had not seen the records.
Mr. Chairman, yesterday during the hearing we had a staff member looking at those records and going through them and trying to tab those parts which would give away the name of confidential informants, people that furnish the committee with information.
This morning I helped to come over a little bit early and work with Mr. Mayner of Mr. Jenkins, staff Mr. Mayner was here early.
I came in a little late by the time I came in, Mr. Kennedy had left the panel late and nevertheless Mr. Mayner and I spent a few minutes, we got the files out on the table.
I'm sure that at the early possible moments during the noon hour or during the afternoon today we can start going through these things.
There is any fault for being late, that fault is mine sir.
The noon hour of Mr. Kennedy made a joint agreement with the committee.
It is the committee director he beat us.
Mr. Chairman, my understanding that Mr. Kennedy was available last night and waited until after seven the other cities to be here this morning at nine.
He was here at the four-nine and I believe all during the nine to ten hour and Mr. Coleman or someone from his side was not available.
I think that it is important that we dispose of this matter in accordance with the agreement which is in the record of yesterday.
So we can get the memorandum in the file so we can ask questions for now in the ten-minute go round.
And I invite the chair's attention to the fact that the committee will save a lot of time if we have the monitored calls and the memorandum referred to.
Otherwise, if I will point out the chair, we will have to take up these items properly and cannot immigrate from into our questioning and connection with our cloth examination and from the interest of orderly procedures.
But I earnestly and join the chair, there is a total of these two matters without delay.
On the second matter I understood that the noon hour today was a devotee to that purpose.
Mr. Kennedy made a joint Mr. Mayner and Mr. Coleman of whoever repugnant, the cones position.
The ongoing duty, remaining evidence, not in a big back, whatever additional data there is, in conformity with our request.
On the first matter, the chair has heard a motion which has not been seconded.
You can really have to have the motion discussed with the second.
The second is the signings and has made a motion.
If you now understand to reach substantially as follows, that we are firmly affirmed in the column motion by stating that all of the monitored calls and the position of the council.
Between the principles and between the principles and the committee members should be introduced into the matter.
On the second motion, I thank you for your improperly said.
Everybody in order to get them in the record, I will strike an motion to properly get those monitored calls and the record is called a man appearing monitored, going on the open-air and swadding calls and the chair will certainly believe that under the signings and motion that would be the procedure to be followed.
I did think you were wrong, I'm hoping to include the sort of sentiment.
The chair will certainly assume that we put them in under those circumstances.
In the garden.
Yes.
Do we have read the motion, made and seconded, is there any discussion?
It's not. The chair is going to put it in favor, thinking about that.
May I join you, Chairman?
I don't have one point about this.
This goes back to the very first meeting when we signed a consent with reference to these calls and that's this.
Senator McCarthy said the first time this matter ever came up and I'm quoting from what he said in connection with Senator McClellan's motion.
Quote, I want them all in and I want the whole picture laid clear on the table.
I want everything that Bob Stevens or anyone in the military said to any senator,
or anyone in the administration or anyone, or anywhere else, in regards to this investigation, made a part of the record, so that we wish you had a complete picture.
Now, when I first met with Mr. Howard, Mr. Jenkins, staff and with a representative of Mr. Wells, there was certain calls very relevant to this controversy which I knew about which were missing.
I asked the tolls that he produced and given to Mr. Jenkins, staff.
I refer specifically to a call between Mr. Stevens and my top on September 28th.
Calls between Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams on concerning a relieving of general law and speaking to Senator McCarthy about that on November 24th and November 25th.
And some others, and I wonder if I might invite Chairman Leather or not, those calls have been produced so we'll know whether we're going to get all the calls, the arrow whether we're going to get a selection of calls.
Mr. Chairman, the council we have to ask you that question that you're having, that seems to call.
Mr. Howard's advising me just now is the calls to which Mr. Column has referred and have not been forthcoming.
Have nothing, have not been forthcoming. Sir, I would object, and if I may, to the introduction of any call unless we can get all the calls.
I think sir, that's very important that we get the complete thing here and not a selection made by somebody of what they'd like to get in and a withholding of other relevant, very relevant calls throughout case.
The council has advised the chair, here's no objection that the senator is insistent on doing it now.
As the council has advised the chair, he would like to have an effective committee meeting call in which he could present to us the relevant calls that they have now shifted out of the 34 that they have.
And I wish you could discuss it. I just passed that out of the information of my colleagues and chair, it's probably willing to discuss it here, but he does feel that we shouldn't.
Yes, possible. I can bring you with the interlocutor I have to witness.
The most important thing I'm going to make about the presentation is that the witnesses are all for what? How the witness? That's all right.
But when you get through with the witness, surely you'll see all the thoughts of going to the resident.
We've got to be called back in question about it. I was a question of whether you want to ask, but I just, by getting them in here now, if they can be out now, if they're going to be objective too, if they can't get them in, if someone wants to, by the keeps them out, such as we have, such as we can get.
Let's find out what is, we'll know what is. Then the committee determines what are they going to put them in and out, however they're not. Let's set it.
I think we should dispose of this matter because obviously the subject of the monetary phone call was necessarily, I have to be used in cross examination.
I like that. So, why call the witness if we have a Mr. Cohen here now? There are other witnesses who are going to have to recall because we have deleted it.
Make the person who calls.
I think it was something to do it out.
So, I can say that sometimes, I have taken the position that, who is concerned to the one of her follows, we can introduce, even though they are, who are thinking, give all calls, we can introduce.
There will be no consent on that.
I have a call for her.
Mr. Chairman.
This is me, this is probably a time, who addresses us in the committee well, and it's a big way.
Where are other calls that Mr. Cohen would like to provide, of the number provided to the committee.
Mr. Chairman, you tell us why some of the calls are not distributed and some of them have been selected.
But, is there a case against the impact the Senate has in the middle of the world about the case of the Disney Secretary of the House?
That's a high level.
That executive order prevents our producing and our introducing inhabitants, calls between, let us say, Secretary Stevens and General Lopp.
That is the only place that I know of at the moment, where that directive impenses.
How long have there been calls between the Secretary and Mr. Cohen must have been produced?
I think, Mr. Welch, that it was not produced.
Then it must have been a call. It was not monitored.
All monitored calls.
I think, is there a carry on you, too, as far as I know, as you know, Mr. Cohen, I have not been told.
I know that, Mr. Welch, I am a scientist, sir, that every monitor is called between the parties on the one side and the parties on the other, as well as the monitoring calls between the parties and senators have been produced and submitted to council.
No, sir.
That's not been, because I know that I had, I understood that Mr. Stevens' monitor is all called, with certainly with parties and interests in this case and with senators on this committee.
Now, I know, sir, are certain specific conversations which I had with Mr. Stevens which were not produced.
I tried, I tried to back the date on one of them.
I have found it to be the morning of September the 28th.
No monitor of that call has been produced, as far as I know, sir.
Mr. Chairman, I ask for it.
Mr. Chairman, I am.
Mr. Chairman.
May I make a constructive suggestion, sir?
Does he proceed with the cross-examination of Mr. Cohen?
Does he have Mr. Welch called Mr. Lucas?
Then Mr. Lucas, back to the Monroe, letting him tell us precisely what calls have been delivered to us and which calls have been retailed.
And then we can take this question out.
That is a good question.
I was going to suggest that I had a convention that all of the calls were monitored and nothing serious.
I tried to ask Mr. Lucas no.
Right.
And he'll leave it for us correctly.
Or incorrectly about it.
And I wanted to take a stop moment for a run for him, it was about the new silence.
Sir, the White guy is concerned with the suggestion and if it's available, the measure is in motion and the second there will be the whole of the motion in advance until we have an opportunity to do that.
Excuse me.
I'm Mr. Welch.
I have someone called Mr. Lucas and have Mr. Lucas come to the committee room.
I'd be happy to.
First, I would count the courtesy of Mr. Cohen if he would tell me today or today, but he thinks there may be monitored calls.
Sorry, Walter.
I'll just give me a few memory here.
Mr. Welch, I checked back.
September 28, 1953, in the morning.
Call between Mr. Stevenson and myself.
October, the...
Where were you at the time?
I was in this room, sir.
In this room.
In the caucus room?
Yes, sir.
In the caucus room.
The call came during A hearing.
That's September 28.
There's a date later in October, which was missing and I would have to check that and give it to you, Mr. Welch.
We also want, sir, which is certainly vital to our case here and we'll be very revealing.
Number one, the call between Secretary Stevenson General Lawton on October the 2, 1953, which Mr. Steven testified about in this hearing.
Call between Mr. Stevenson and Mr. Adams with reference to representation to be made to Senator McCarthy on November the 24th and November the 25th, 1953.
Both of them which occurred in the fall of the Mr. Welch, there might be some others I'll try to get your list as far as I can.
Mr. Chairman, as to the last two, Mr. Cohen is the story aware of the impentment of the executive order on those two calls.
And may I say, Mr. Cohen, in respect to the other call, as often say I can speak freely since I don't know what I'm talking about.
It could have been, of course, that you call Secretary and we see that some often in the Pentagon, which was not his own office, so that they're closing the call, not monitor.
I'm not suggesting that it's true. I am not merely suggesting, but I am promising, Mr. Chairman, that Mr. Welch will produce in this room every month, call that we have.
We clearly need to wait in a second.
Yes, sir, and I want to make it very clear if Senator Munnify.
Senator Munn, sir.
Yes, sir.
From our standpoint, sir, I want to make it very clear.
As far as I'm concerned, we consider these calls on General Lawton as probably most relevant things in these proceedings.
And we certainly believe that those are included in Senator McCarthy's original statement that he wanted all the calls to go insert.
And I am sure from my standpoint, I haven't talked to the Senator about this, and I don't know how he feels.
But I would certainly say that if there's going to be a selection and a withholding here, I don't think that that would be fair at all.
Mr. Welch, may the Chair inquire whether you have made the specific request of the Attorney Generalist, what does the three calls that seem to be in controversy?
Or are not covered by the executive order, it's entirely possible that they are not, because the executive order does provide that pertinent information between the principles might be made available.
The answer is that I have not, and the second we marked it with, I think, between now and there, in college, what I would like to have is, I need to have your office or you do that if you want to.
Mr. Chairman.
The Generalist, the Chair or the Council for Committee of Media to take up the matter, get the calls within the five, Mr. Cohn, Mr. McCarty, and Mr. Deng, get them within the five.
Make it up for the Attorney General of the Buffalo Party, I don't know who it is.
And first, the way the rest gets them, let's get them in the record.
I think a lot of people are here, I hope the Administration will make a position unless they act the deal with National Security.
I hope they are not taking the position of keeping them in the fall now.
I don't believe that deal with National Security, that may be first of the Nation here, and I think there should be a committee cabinet that the Nation should be in the right.
Now, the situation has been eased and censored.
Number one, we have to get to Mr. Cohn and Ormond from the carvings.
The specific calls, which they are interested in, they would like to have included in the record.
Number two, we will then bring in Mr. Lucas to determine whether or not he has monitors of those calls.
Number three, we will then ask our Council to interview the Attorney General with a specific request that it's possible that the Executive Order be consumed
so as not to be closed the entrance to by information in the record to the end that all of the monitoring calls which are pertinent and available under those terms can then be entered chronologically in the record.
That's a situation.
This is a situation that may be a bit normal, but I won't say that I partly agree with what Senator McClellan has just said.
Now, we are on a agreement and that this procedure can be worked out, and if the Attorney General is able to give us the assurance that Senator McClellan has the suggestion that we have found the procedure and the method to put these lines of his telephone calls in.
Any other objection now, either voice it now or never please.
All right, we will proceed on that page. Mr. Senator, I'm going to try to get to it.
Mr. Cohen, from time to time, questions have been raised concerning to you.
Military background and experience of some of the witnesses who have been the public meeting.
Yes sir. For the purposes of an all-inclusive record which you would like to recite at this point, what your own military experience was?
Yes sir, I'm currently a First Lieutenant in the New York National Guard. I joined that in 1948 as a private and I now hold the rank of First Lieutenant.
So you've had six years of service. Well, I have been in the National Guard since the year 6th. It's not an active service. Well, I was going to say six years of service.
Yes, I have. In the New York National Guard, the beginning here is a private and that's presently your rank is that of a Second Lieutenant. First Lieutenant.
Yes sir. I presume that involves Camp Doody in the course of the year and on. It involves field training sir.
Field training. Yes sir.
Now questions have been raised from time to time concerning the induction of privacy, David Shind, into the service.
And I thought somewhere along the line I caught an overtone that at one time or another, he has been rejected in selective service.
Yes sir. Now that question of course could be addressed to private Shind if he occupies with the stand. Yes sir.
But I assume from your association with him that you would have some knowledge of it. Do you? Yes sir. Would you then like to recite at this point in the record?
What that particular element is? Yes sir. He, what I know about Sun and the Dirkson. He was in the, he enlisted in the Army Transport Service.
Like some years ago, he served in that for about a year here and overseas. When he had a drug physical after that, he was found physically disqualified.
Placed in 4F, he was, his case was reopened back last summer. And just a result of that he has been inducted.
Well, say about what year was it that he was putting the floor as staffed. I don't know the exact yes and that Dirkson was a number of years ago.
Now Mr. Cohn, your official position as a committee is at a chief counsel. Yes sir. I think it might be well to describe for the record what you esteem to be here at Doody's in that capacity.
Yes sir. No one? No one? I wonder if you would.
You would be able to do my six-day service there. Mr. Cohn, you would be the black and brown.
The physical disability that Mr. Cohn should describe. What's the physical disability?
As far as I know, sir, I think, any aid exists which he has in his back. So, this means that.
Senator, on the question of, on the question of my, my, my duties, I would say sir, it's just about everything.
We have a very small group of men downstairs and there's no clear line of theme on occasion between what one does and what the other might do.
I as counsel examine witnesses on occasion at the hearings. I helped set up the hearings. I helped in the investigative work. I thought just about everything I would say sir.
From time to time, Mr. Cohn, the question has been raised concerning the jurisdiction of the Permanent Investigating Committee in carrying on its operations in the field that it has pursued for quite some time.
Yes sir. Are you familiar with the jurisdiction of the committee? Yes sir. You have familiarized yourself with the recycle in the Senate rule book which indicates the jurisdiction of the committee as defined in the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1900 or six.
I have. Would you recite for the record what you were seeing to be the jurisdiction of the committee and not only the reason but the purpose in pursuing the plan of investigatory work?
I understand that there are under the Legislative Reorganization Act, this committee, this parent committee has the obligation of investigating the efficiency of the operation of government agencies at every level from the standpoint of the economy, efficiency and other things fairing on whether or not executive agencies are doing their job and doing their job properly.
In other words, it's sort of the watch that I've got the executive in addition to that sort of this committee has charged with the obligation of investigating from the same standpoint of efficiency and the economy, the relations between the federal government and state governments to whom the federal government might contribute to international organization of which the federal government might be a member.
In other words, they brought standpoints under the direction I believe the jurisdiction of the committee is the act as a watchdog on the executive. So bringing out publicly instances in which the executive has been inefficient, has failed in its duty, has not acted on a case instances which would show lack of economy, lack of efficiency, lack of city of various types and fitting it indirectly.
In other words, we have gone into instances where the corruption or communism executive agencies have failed to take action on FBI reports and things of those kinds. That is about roughly the way I understand the jurisdiction of the committee.
The committee has also had jurisdiction in as much as the rule provides that the committee is empowered to study the relationships between the United States and the international organizations in which it is a member.
That same line of work might extend into that field also.
Yes sir, I think it has an express mandate.
Now with respect to the particular matter that is before us, how do you interpret the constitutional provision which gives Congress the power, which gives Congress the power, which gives Congress the Congress the right to provide and which gives Congress the right to provide and to provide for rules and regulations for the governing of the armies and the Navy.
I think that there is no doubt that this committee has not only jurisdiction but has an obligation to invest under its powers to investigate communist infiltration or any other type of mouth-facing in the military.
And is it that interpretation that has guided your endeavors as chief counsel of the committee?
Yes sir, and I have never had any objection raised to the jurisdictional point.
Now Mr. Cohn, let me refer for a moment to the original charge of improper human rules.
Yes sir.
Have you considered and have you an opinion as to your idea of what my constitution, proper influence in a situation such as that which is supposed to be confirming the committee?
So I told a lot to me to reconstruct. I know what I did and what I said and what other people understood and said and I know that there was nothing improper in this or in any other case.
And I don't know what Mr. Stephen Smith and Mr. Adams could have in mind. I listened to their testimony here sir.
And all I can say is we certainly did nothing improper and I don't know what they were asking.
Now in your answer Mr. Cohn, of course you may give an effect as categorical in our charge for one thing.
And secondly you assert leads in their motive for the making of the charges.
Yes sir. Now in effect of course your allegation of the reason for the charges in your answer is in essence a charge of interference on the part of the executive branch in the affairs of the legislative branch.
That's right sir.
You investigated this to the file system in the state department.
We did sir. Did you encounter a comparable situation though of any of the families?
We did sir at one point to what extent.
So this extensor there was a witness who appeared before the committee and testified.
He was a state department employee.
After he left the stand and went back to his job he found his job was no longer there.